The species never got beyond religion. It morphed into advertising, and finally, advertising become politics. 

Now citizens consume ads and think they're changing the world. It was the most powerful force for doing-nothing imaginable. All they did was watch political theatre as-if it were political action. And since theatre was action, if they engaged in theatre themselves, they were acting. They were activists! 

And so they were part of the fight. The warriors stared into their liquid crystal screens which beamed out adverts and told them it was the world. They typed back, repeating the hooks and decrying the TV-villains. This time trump was going to get it!! They said, their post -- after all -- had 100 upvotes!

All the while the real political institutions of the country crumbled. The misinformed voters who learnt nothing and did nothing. The sick and dying whose saviours were the ad-campaigners.

They spent all their time and energy fighting the appearances. They ridiculed anyone who point out their illusory activism. Apparently, *they* had "their heads in the sand". *They* were delusional to think their meaningless gestures didn't *mean something*.

Of course they *mean something*! Aren't we all important!? And we all the protagonists of an amazing on going movie? Aren't my words changing the world!?

The charming delusions of an infant who thinks their thoughts control the weather. The problem now, of course, is that this is a generation of infants who never learnt the difference between appearance and reality. Whose reality was appearance. 

And so, as crisis after crisis unfolds: pandemics, global warming, economic catastrophe.. they continued to do... nothing. Nothing in the real world. Nothing that could change anything.

All their time and energy was spent fighting the ads. Fighting the republicans, the conservatives, the democrats, the leftwing and the rightwing. Fighting their ads. Rearranging the statues, ensuring Wonder Woman was big at the box office, sticking it to Trump with a Danke Meme. 

100,000 more dead and none thought to ask: am I the problem?
